Middleware basically comes between the request and response cycle and proccesse the request before it reaches the server and processes the response before it reaches to the client.
It is used in authentication and logging.

✅ 1. Middleware (Definition)

Middleware is software that intercepts a request before it reaches your main application logic during the request–response cycle.

It can:

Inspect the request

Modify the request or response

Validate or authenticate

Block the request

Or pass it to the next handler

✅ 2. Why Middleware Exists (Purpose)

Middleware allows common functionality to be handled in a centralized and reusable way, such as:

Security

Logging

Authentication

Rate limiting

Request validation

CORS

Error handling

It keeps the main application logic clean.

✅ 3. How Middleware Works (General Behavior)

A middleware function typically:

Receives the request

Performs some processing

Either:

returns a response, OR

calls the next middleware/handler → next()

Middleware executes in a chain, one after another.

✅ 4. Middleware in Express.js (If asked specifically)

In Node/Express:

function middleware(req, res, next) {
    // code here
    next(); // pass to next middleware
}


Parameters:

req → request object

res → response object

next() → calls next middleware in chain

✅ 5. Common Interview Use Cases of Middleware

Middleware is used for:

🔹 1. Rate Limiting

Check how many requests a user has made and block if limit exceeded.

🔹 2. Authentication

Verify JWT token, API key, session cookie.

🔹 3. Logging

Record incoming requests for monitoring/analytics.

🔹 4. Authorization

Verify if user has permission to access an endpoint.

🔹 5. Input Validation

Check if request body/query params are correct.

🔹 6. Security Checks

Prevent SQL injection, XSS, CSRF.

🔹 7. CORS Handling

Allow cross-origin requests.

🔹 8. Compression

Gzip responses.

Perfect use-case explanation in interviews.

✅ 6. Where Middleware Sits in Architecture
Client → Load Balancer → Middleware → Controller/Route Handler → DB


Middleware runs before application business logic.
