JWT commonly knows as json web token . It is used for authentication , authorization and information exchange. It consist of three parts :- header , payload and signature. and it is stateless. since jwt contains all the ne
cessary information within itself , the server doesn't need to maintain session information.

so , how does jwt works ?
whenever clint tries to log in to the server to access some informatino and when the user is able to authenticate itself , the server generate a jwt token for the clien.
the client store it in local storage or cookie.for every subsequent request which need authentication , the client send the jwt in the request headers .the server validates the token by checking the signature and
decoding the payload.

Session Based Authentication used session and is stateful . and jwt is prefereed more over this because jwt is more safe.
cookies and servers helps in enhancing the user experience by remebering the user information like it is done by e-commerce platforms to store ur login information
so that you don't have to enter it every time you visit the website.it is stored on the client side , and every request the client makes to the server , it is
included in the http request. it is typically of very small size. but cookies aren't perfect because they can be tempered , that's why it is preferred to not store any sen
sitive information in it.that's where session comes in.

if cookies are like notes in ur browser , then session is like a private conversation between your server . The server assign a unique session id to each user , which is
often stored in a cookie. The cookie only stores the session id , the actual data is present on the server side only.Used to manage shopping carts on session side.
so, session are often more secure than cookies because it is stored on the server side , but the problem here is that it gives issue of scalability.


Local Storage vs Session Storage.
Local storage is present on the client side and not automatically sent to the server with each request . Session storage is also client side only and not sent to the server.
Cookies can be accessed both by the client and the server and sent with each HTTP request making it suitable for session managment.so, local storage can be used for storing user preferences permanently.
and session storage can be used for storing the data which will be needed only in one session. whereas cookies can be used to store session id , so it can be used for authentication.

